---
layout: post-light-feature
title: homerwork 3
description: response to "right to be forgotten" reading
categories: articles
date: {2017-09-26}
image: null
published: true
---
When I first read started the article, “‘Right to Be Forgotten’ Online Could Spread” by Farhad Manjoo, I first thought, “Oh great! Here’s a way for people to control how much information about them is available online!” But, I continued reading, remembered that capitalism existed, and that most, if not all, governments would love nothing more than to have their own ‘right to be forgotten’ in regards the more unsavory things in history they’ve been a part of. Emma Llanso, a free speech scholar who works for the Center of Democracy and Technology, expressed my concerns quite succinctly when quoted on the article: “When we’re talking about a broadly scoped right to be forgotten that’s about altering the historical record or making information that was lawfully public no longer accessible to people, I don’t see a way to square that with a fundamental right to access to information.” Ultimately, what this ‘right to be forgotten’ grants is more privacy and control, but the question is: for who? Governments and citizens do not always have the same interests, and have different threat models when it comes to security and privacy. Average citizens worry about keeping credit card information and social security numbers private, unjust governments worry about not giving enough people enough information that they will be overthrown. If this ruling remains in a broad scope, it could be hard to draw the line between the rights of citizens to control their data, and the right of governments to do the same. While governments control how much their population know is not a radically new concept or cause for concern, what this could do is kill the last avenue of disseminating of information/data that would otherwise be censored: the internet. 
In short: be afraid, be very afraid. 
